if you find a cookie under your doormat
call the police
in the u.s. one burglary happens every
18 seconds this means that there are 200
break-ins every hour
let's go further every day Americans
suffer the consequences of 4800
criminals entering their homes aren't
those startling statistics it takes an
experienced burglar between 90 seconds
and 12 minutes to take everything they
need and leave a house even more
surprisingly 28% of all break-ins happen
when at least one member of the family
is at home and what about the arrest
rate for this type of crime in the US
unfortunately it's pretty low just 13%
but as you very well know forewarned is
forearmed in this video you'll learn
what to do if you spot a cookie under
your doormat what white pebbles on your
driveway mean and what measures you can
take to avoid becoming the victim of an
offender but before you start watching
click the red subscription button and
turn on notifications if you haven't
done so yet there are numerous useful
videos on the bright side of life and
you'll be the first to learn about daily
updates you've probably heard that when
a burglar decides which house to target
they start by casing it this means that
they watch the owners find out
information about their routine and
determine the best time for entering
their home by the time they are ready to
commit the crime they already know for
sure when there won't be anybody inside
or when the owners will be distracted
one of the tricks thieves used to gather
information about your routine is so
simple that you may not even give it a
second thought but the next time you
hear a quiet crackle under the sole of
your shoe stop and check what it was the
chances are high that you'll find
yourself face to face with a crushed
cookie if that's the case it's your clue
that's
something has gone terribly wrong the
thing is this is a rather effective tool
criminals used to find out if you've
left on a trip or when exactly you come
home in the evening a cookie is such an
innocent object that people don't
usually give it much thought if they
even notice it at all you arrive home
step on the cookie make it crumble and
automatically reveal all your secrets to
the burglars they know for sure if the
house is lived in and can also figure
out the schedule of its owners things
get even worse if you are away from home
the cookie under the doormat remains
whole thus alerting criminals that the
house is perfect for a break-in
so if you find some treats under your
doormat that's pretty bad news somebody
is interested in your house and watching
it it might be a good idea to notify the
police or take some safety measures will
tell you about those a bit later the
ploy with a cookie is just one of the
numerous tricks used by burglars one
more sign that can alert you of the fact
that you are being watched is white
pebbles left near the house or in the
driveway this means that a criminal has
already visited your home and marked it
as worth entering another reason why
thieves may have left the pebbles is to
indicate that your house stays empty
during the day also pay attention to any
flyer stuck in a bunch in your entrance
door
besides being extremely annoying they
are also potentially dangerous there are
two reasons why burglars may leave this
stuff in your door they mark your daily
routine and they also mark houses that
are empty at the moment
in addition flyer sticking out of the
door serve as a flag for fellow burglars
they indicate that a house isn't guarded
and that it's all too easy to get inside
one more thing that helps criminals
check if a house or apartment is empty
at that moment is something as innocuous
as a simple match a hair or a piece of
thread burglars fix these to the door in
a way that makes it easy to determine if
somebody has entered the house when you
open the door the practically invisible
match falls to the ground but if the
thieves come back and find their tell in
place it means that the owners haven't
opened the door in quite some time
good inclusion they are away
every time you return home make it a
habit to check your entrance door and
the keyhole if there are spots of dirt
or scratches around the keyhole
criminals may have been trying to pick
the lock and if there are bizarre signs
drawn on your door erase them
immediately this is how criminals pass
along information about the house to
their accomplices walk around the house
to make sure there are no broken windows
some criminals throw a stone at a window
to see what will happen does the house
have an alarm that will go off
immediately perhaps there will be a
curious neighbor peeking from behind the
bushes or maybe the crash of glass will
startle a dog inside the house in such
cases of potential burglar can pretend
to be a simple hooligan and flee
what precautions can you take to secure
your home and narrow down the chances
that somebody will choose it as a target
for a break-in be secretive when you are
planning to go away on a vacation it's
natural that you want the whole world to
share your happiness
however broadcasting your vacation plans
may not be the wisest move be cautious
of social media you won't believe how
many criminals today use it to gather
information about potential victims
don't post any details about your
holiday plans on Facebook or Instagram
if you're eager to share your amazing
photos from the beach do it after you
return home or you could try regularly
expressing gratitude to your house
sitter even if you have none
check your privacy settings every time
you post something when you're away from
home it's all too simple for a thief to
figure out that your house is empty at
the moment if you're writing on Twitter
that there are huge lines in the mall on
Black Friday build up a network get to
know your neighbors if you create a
community it will be much harder for
thieves to conduct their criminal
activity every time you go away inform
your neighbors ask them to text or call
you if they noticed anything suspicious
going on around your house you can do
the same for them next time they go on a
trip create the impression that there's
somebody at home even when you are away
there are several things that can
discourage burglars from breaking into
your home first of all use the TV and
radio leave them on when you're going
away the sound of voices will most
likely scare criminals away another
thing that may help you is to keep some
lights on in the house not only will it
hint that somebody is at home but it
will also mean that thieves can be
easily identified no criminal will want
to risk being recognized if you're going
to be away for a long period of time
connect several lamps to automatic
timers this way they will switch on when
it gets dark and go off during the day
make sure somebody comes to pick up the
mail and look after your lawn one of the
most obvious telltale signs that the
owners of a house have gone away is a
pile of newspapers and Mail mounting up
at the front door
ask somebody a neighbor a relative or a
friend to stop by regularly and pick up
any accumulated correspondence if
there's nobody who can do you this favor
place your mail on hold you can do this
at your local post office another thing
that can give away your prolonged
absence is an unkempt lawn with tall
grass so before going away hire somebody
to mow your lawn regularly and keep the
lawn tight
we hope that these tips will help you
out when you need to go away and leave
your home for a long period of time do
you know any other recommendations for
how to keep your place protected tell us
in the comments below remember to hit
the like button to stay safe and happy
on the bright side of life